#summary Describes the InfinitumContext.
#labels Explained

*Contents*
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

Application-wide context information, which is read from the InfinitumCfgXml file, is stored in a container called `InfinitumContext`. Since the information stored in `InfinitumContext` is initialized from the configuration file, this object should not be instantiated directly. Rather, it should be obtained through the ContextProvider.


= Configuration =

`InfinitumContext` is also configured in `ContextProvider` in addition to being obtained from it. Invoking the `configure` method in `ContextProvider` is critical and must be done before any attempts are made to access the context. The following code snippet illustrates this notion:

{{{
@Override
public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    setContentView(R.layout.main);
    InfinitumContext ctx = ContextProvider.getInstance().getContext(); 
}
}}}

The above example will throw an `InfinitumConfigurationException` because `configure` has not been called on the `ContextProvider`. The corrected code is as follows:

{{{
@Override
public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    setContentView(R.layout.main);
    ContextProvider.getInstance().configure(this, R.xml.infinitum);
    InfinitumContext ctx = ContextProvider.getInstance().getContext();
}
}}}

`ContextProvider`'s `configure` method takes a `Context` and resource ID as arguments. The latter is the resource ID for `infinitum.cfg.xml`, meaning this file should be placed in /res/raw. Because `configure` returns an `InfinitumContext` instance, the above code can be made more concise:

{{{
@Override
public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    setContentView(R.layout.main);
    InfinitumContext ctx = ContextProvider.getInstance().configure(this, R.xml.infinitum);
}
}}}

= Using `InfinitumContext` =

`InfinitumContext` can be used to evaluate application-configuration settings at runtime. More important, it is used to acquire a [Session], Infinitum's datastore persistence service. The code snippet below shows how a SQLite `Session` is acquired.

{{{
@Override
public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    setContentView(R.layout.main);
    Session session = ContextProvider.getInstance().configure(this, R.xml.infinitum).getSession(DataSource.Sqlite);
}
}}}

`InfinitumContext` also acts as a service locator, allowing configured beans to be retrieved. The code below shows how a `service` bean, configured to use the implementation `MyService`, might be retrieved using `InfinitumContext`.

{{{
MyService service = context.getBean("service", MyService.class);
}}}